# 2.3 新概念一



## 2.3.1 lesson1~2

### excuse me
**意思**
>- 打扰一下
>- 打断他人
>- 失陪
>- 借过
>- 失礼道歉
>- 请再说一遍
>- 反对

**句子**
- *No excuse*（不要找借口）, but there must be a reason for all of this.
- Come on. Don't *make that lame excuse*（站不住脚的借口） again.
- Excuse the mess.(请不要见外) 

### handbag
**词汇辨析**
purse-->briefcase-->suitcase>grip<Sack

**句子**
>I really like this handbag. I'll take it
>Give me a hand,Tom
>Don't let the cat out of the bag.
>It's just between us.

**词源拓展**
handbag-->handbook=handout-->schoolbag

Turn the handle--> I can handle it

### pardon
请再说一遍
你说什么

I beg your pardon? = Pardon me?

If you'll excuse the expression. 如果你不介意，我后面会讲一些冒犯的话

With all due respect. 请恕我冒昧

### Is this your handbag 回答
Yes, it is. Thank you very much
> I really appreciate it
> I'm very grateful
> Gratitude
> Thanks a lot/million

> You're welcome
> It's no big deal
> Don't mention it
> It's my pleasure
> At your service
> Not at all

> Thank God.
> Thanks to your help.
> Thansgiving Day
> Be thankful
No, it isn't
Maybe. Let me check

## 2.3.2 lesson3~4

### coat, umbrella,ticket
Put on your coat.
Take an umbrella *just in case*(以防万一).

Ticket, please.
I just can't get a ticket.
You have to book a ticket in advance.
I broke the speed limit and got a ticket
Ticket Office/Box Office

Here are our tickets
Here it is.
Here you are
Here we are.

### number
I don't know the room/telephone number
To be number one
There is strength in numbers. 人多力量大
The number you dialed is powered off. 你所拨打的号码已关机
Give me five,buddy

A number of students are ... VS The number of students is ...
Here is a pen and two books VS Here are two books and a pen

It's a small world, isn't it?
It's not about money.
It's my bad/fault/mistake.
I'm sorry to hear that.
You'll be sorry



## 2.3.3 lesson5~6

**1. Good morning.** <br>
Morning<br>
Good afternoon/evening--->Good night<br>
I drink milk every morning<br>
I didn't drink milk this morning<br>
I drink milk in the morning<br>
I'm gonna drink milk on Sunday morning<br>
Early to bed, early to rise<br>

**2. This is Miss Sophie Dupont. Sophie is a new student. She is French** <br><br>
Mr(先生). Mrs(夫人，已婚). VS Miss(未婚) VS Ms(不知道是否已结婚)<br>
Philosophy<br>
a new year/hotel/dress --> news<br>
We're new comers. We're new to the customs here<br>
a straight-A/top student<br>
Do you speak French<br>
French fries/letter<br>

**3. Nice to meet you.**<br>
(I'm) glad/happy/pleased to meet you<br>
It's nice to meet you VS Nice meeting you<br>
I've heard much about you<br>
How do you do?<br>
meet/see a friend --> meat,meeting<br>
Anti-Japanese war<br>

**4. 介绍.**<br>
Let me introduce myself<br>
I'm honored to introduce Prof.Wang to you<br>
I'd like to introduce A to B. This is...<br>

## 2.3.3 lesson7~8<br>
**1. My name's Robert.**<br>
What's his name<br>
May I have your name please<br>
My grandpa named me<br>
You name it(应有尽有)<br>
You name a price/place(说出来)<br>
In the name of (以某某的名义)<br>
Call me/you/him/her names(骂我/你)<br>

**2. What nationality are you?**<br>
nation-national(flag)-nationality<br>
What's your nationality?<br>
Where are you from=Where do you come from<br>
Never offer to teach fish to swim<br>
You can't teach an old dog new tricks<br>
I'm here not to teach but to share<br>
Learn a lesson from...<br>

**3. What's your job?**<br>
What do you do for a living<br>
Are you working at the moment<br>
Job VS Occupation VS Career VS work<br>
I'm looking for a decent job in the job market<br>
I want to take a part/full-time job<br>
Good job = Well done<br>
Job interview/offer/hoppers<br>

**4. I'm a keyboard operator**<br>
Car keys/key words-->blackboard<br>
The key to success is to be ready from the start<br>
The key to doing sth...<br>
I'm a typist<br>
operate a machine/business<br>
operate on sb<br>
teachers are engineers of human souls<br>

## 2.3.3 lesson9-10<br>
**1.shop**<br>
Shop/rock till I die<br>
Let's go shopping<br>
I'm just window-shopping<br>
I'm just looking around<br>
bookshop/shopper/shop assistant/shopping mall<br>
She's walking her dog<br>

How are you doing today?<br>
How have you been?<br>
Not bad/Nothing special/Just so-so<br>
You did it well=Well done<br>
Everything is gonna be fine<br>
It's a fine day today<br>
That's fine<br>
You have to pay a fine for that<br>
If you break the speed limit, you'll get fined<br>

**2. How is Tony**<br>
How's she/he?<br>
How are you feeling today<br>
I don't feel very well<br>
You're really in good shape<br>
Please send/give my best wishers to your parents.<br>

**3.Nice to see you.**<br>
Bye./See you(later/around)/So long<br>
Nice to see you again<br>
I see/You'll see<br>
We'll wait and see<br>
Are you seeing someone?你在约会某人吗<br>